---
title: Versions of IPIP Measures around the World Wide Web
source: ipip.ori.org
category: Big 5 Personality
language: English
---


Because the IPIP is in the public domain, anybody can distribute paper-and-pencil copies of IPIP measures or administer online versions of IPIP measures without asking for permission or guidance from the researchers who created and maintain the IPIP website.

In some cases, others have asked for our assistance and guidance in implementing IPIP materials, but in many cases, they have simply used IPIP materials on their own. In the latter cases, we cannot guarantee the quality and validity of what others have done with the IPIP.
High-Quality Implementations of IPIP Measures


If you are looking to use an IPIP-based inventory for personnel selection and development, you can try the site HR Potentials, which is free for educational, research, and non-profit use.

The Open-Source Psychometrics Project has implemented the IPIP Big-Five Factor Marker (BFFM) scales into a free online inventory. The 50-item BFFM inventory is probably the most widely-used of all IPIP measures because it has been used as a sample questionnaire for measuring the five major personality factors since the IPIP website first came online in 1998. Over a million persons have completed the Open-Source Psychometrics Project version of the BFFM inventory.

Deep Personality is a novel, unique platform for personality interpretation using AI analyses of responses to IPIP items. This project is described as "a journaling process" in which you respond to sets of IPIP items over time. You can choose how many items are included in one set, and you can answer as many sets as you wish while logged into the site. You may return to the site as often as you like over days, weeks, or months to respond to new sets of items. At any point you can request the site's artifical intelligence tools to write a summary of your personality. The site contains both cost-free and paid options.

Online versions of the 120-item and 300-item IPIP representations of the NEO PI-R have been developed. Over a million persons have completed either the shorter or longer version of the IPIP-NEO, which has been online since 1996. Because the computer code for online administration of the IPIP-NEO has been freely distributed, numerous individuals have used the code for creating their own online versions of the IPIP-NEO. To the extent that these copycat sites have faithfully used the original code, they should produce the same results as the original online IPIP-NEO. It has not been feasible to locate and quality-check all of these other sites, so we cannot vouch for their accuracy. However, one of the best online implementations of the 120-item IPIP-NEO can be completed at no cost at https://bigfive-test.com/ . This implementation is available in 18 different languages and has been completed by over 4 million persons. If you are a programmer who is interested in the code for this site, it is freely available at GitHub.

A website is available where you can complete an online version of the IPIP-HEXACO, a 60-item personality inventory that yields scores for factors similar to the Big 5 personality traits plus a score for Honesty-Humility. The inventory also yields scores for several narrower facets within each of the six factors. This online IPIP-HEXACO, which can be completed at no cost, produces an array of scores and graphs and also provides additional information about personality in general.

The Synthetic Aperture Personality Assessment (SAPA) is a very sophisticated online assessment that provides a comprehensive, color-coded profile of your personality. It is unique in that the items you are asked to respond to will depend on your answers to previous items. This allows for the generation of a complete personality profile using the minimum number of items needed to create the profile. This free assessment takes between 15-25 minutes to complete.

ZuPersona is a new multilingual (Turkish, English, and Dutch) psychometric assessment platform. The platform, accessible at https://tests.zupersona.com/, currently allows users to complete the Oregon Vocational Interest Scales (ORVIS) online and receive a report that identifies the types of occupational activities toward which a person is naturally inclined. Additional IPIP measures will be added to the site in the future.

Finally, there is the colorful and fun Do You Know YOU? test. This implementation of the 50-item Big-Five Factor markers is still under development with a shorter track record than the measures described above. It presently provides a minimal amount of information about a respondent's standing on the five major personality factors. Nonetheless, this free assessment seems to be valid and provides useful connections between your personality scores and career choices.

One Problematic version of the IPIP-BFFM Scales
Unfortunately, because the IPIP is in the public domain and developers can do anything they want with the IPIP, sometimes problematic versions of IPIP measures have appeared on the World Wide Web. Perhaps the most troublesome of such measures has been an early implementation of the Big-Five Factor Marker (BFFM) scales. This implementation appeared in 2011 by the Open-Source Psychometrics Projects, which at that time was called personality-testing.info (that URL is no longer in service.) While we list the current version of the BFFM scales at the Open-Source Psychometric Projects among the high-quality implementations of IPIP Measures, the original version at personality-testing.info contained a number of serious problems that have confused countless users. That problematic version of the BFFM scales can still be found in PDF form on the Open-Source Psychometric Projects website. Because the PDF lists the IPIP home page at the top of the document, we frequently get inquiries about the scoring and interpretation of what we now call the "rogue version" of the BFFM scales. One reason that we created the current web page was to describe three major problems with this rogue version.

The first problem is that the rogue version uses scale labels from Costa & McCrae's (1992) Five-Factor Model instead of the lexical Big-Five Model (Goldberg, 1992). This means that the fourth factor of the Big-Five model, Emotional Stability, is labeled Neuroticism (which is the opposite of Emotional Stability), and the fifth factor, Intellect, is labeled Openness to Experience. One can work around simply by using the proper labels. Note that the formula in the PDF for scoring factor 4 actually produces scores in the direction of Emotional Stability instead of Neuroticism, despite the score being labeled "N" for Neuroticism. (Follow this link for a more detailed explanation of the differences between the Five-Factor Model and the Big Five, under the heading "Finding a Multi-Scale Personality Inventory.")

The second problem is that the rogue version uses an atypical scoring system for IPIP measures. The standard scoring procedure for IPIP scales is to code +keyed item responses from 1 to 5 and -keyed item responses from 5 to 1, and then sum all of the item responses, as explained at https://ipip.ori.org/newScoringInstructions.htm . The  standard scoring key for the BFFM scales is here: https://ipip.ori.org/newBigFive5broadKey.htm . But instead of recoding the -keyed items and summing all of the items responses, the rogue version sums the +keyed items, subtracts the -keyed items, and adds a constant. The constant that appears in the five scoring formulas in the PDF is equal to (6 x the number of -keyed items) - 10. So, for example, the first equation for E has 5 -keyed items, so the constant is (6x5)-10 = 20. The second equation for A has 4 -keyed items, so (6x4)-10 = 14, and so forth. Multiplying the number of -keyed items by 6 is mathematically the same as scoring -keyed items from 5 to 1 and adding them instead of subtracting them. The reason the rogue version subtracts 10 from the constant is that this makes scores range from 0 to 40 instead of the usual 10 to 50 with the standard IPIP scoring method.

The third problem is that the graph at the bottom of the PDF showing the means and distributions of scores uses mean item scores (on a 1-5 scale) rather than scores based on the sum of 10 items. For example, someone who scored a 40 out of a possible 50 on Intellect (which is a 30 out of a possible 40 on Openness if you use the rogue formula) would be represented by a mean item score of 40 ÷ 10 items or 4. That is why all of the scores in the graph range from 1 to 5.

Needless to say, this rogue version has confused countless people. That is why we recommend using the scoring keys and procedures on the IPIP website instead of the formulas in the PDF of the rogue version.
